---
layout: post
title: powerDNS
categories:
- blog
---
> powerDNS

* PowerDNS (pdns) is **an open source authoritative DNS server** that works as an alternative to traditional BIND (named) DNS. 
  * PowerDNS offers better performance and has minimal memory requirements. 
  * PowerDNS also works with many supporting backends ranging from simple zone files to complex database setups as well as various SQL platforms (Mysql, MariaDB, Oracle, PostgreSQL).

* PowerDNS uses a separate program called **PowerDNS Recursor** (pdns_recursor) as the “**resolving DNS server**” as a standalone software package.

* Authoritative and Recursor DNS Servers
  * Authoritative Nameservers are **DNS Servers that contain the DNS records for your domains**. 
  * The authoritative nameserver will **answer queries with information directly from its records**.

* Recursor DNS servers (commonly referred to as Recursive or Resolving) function between the end user and the authoritative DNS server. 
  * Queries that are submitted by the end user arrive at the recursive DNS server **first, which then searches for the records in its cache**.
  * **If the queried record cannot be found in the cache, the *Recursive server then sends the query to the authoritative nameserver* to resolve** the requested record details.

* PowerDNS Caching
  * By default, PowerDNS uses ‘Packet Cache’ to identify similar queries and the provides related answers respectively. 
  * It does this without any further processing of the request. 
  * The default cache interval is based on the TTL (time to live) setting for PowerDNS, which is 20 seconds.
  * In addition to caching entire packets, PowerDNS can also cache individual queries. 
  * Most DNS queries typically involve additional backend queries. 
  * An excellent example of a backend queries would be the lookup for a CNAME record.

* When an end-user queries the ‘A’ record for ‘www.example.com,’ PowerDNS must first run a background query to check for the ‘www’ CNAME record. 
* The PowerDNS Query Cache will cache these types queries for quicker recall in the event of similar future requests.

*PowerDNS Advantages
  * While BIND is perfectly fine for the average host or user, PowerDNS provides a robust set of features and added performance suited for larger server environments with load-balancer configurations, such as reseller. 
  * One of the critical elements of PowerDNS is that it supports DNSSEC (DNS Security Extensions) creating an extra layer of security for your domains DNS. 
  * Also, PowerDNS has a convenient web-based user interface called Poweradmin that has a variety of helpful management tools.


> CNAME 

* CNAME records can be used to **alias one name to another**. CNAME stands for **Canonical Name**.

* A common example is when you have both example.com and www.example.com pointing to the same application and hosted by the same server. 
* In this case, to avoid maintaining two different records, it’s common to create:

*An **A record for example.com pointing to the server IP address**
  * **A CNAME record for www.example.com pointing to example.com**
  * As a result, **example.com points to the server IP address, and www.example.com points to the same address via example.com**. 
### Should the IP address change, you only need to update it in one place: just edit the A record for example.com, and www.example.com automatically inherits the changes.
