---
layout: post
title: DNS
categories:
- blog
---
> # DNS

### What is DNS? [dns_link]
- The Domain Name Systems (DNS) is the phonebook of the Internet. 
- Humans access information online through domain names, like nytimes.com or espn.com. 
- Web browsers interact through Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. 
- **DNS translates *domain names to IP addresses* so browsers can load Internet resources.**

- Each device connected to the Internet has a **unique IP address** which other machines **use to find the device**. 
- DNS servers eliminate the need for humans to memorize IP addresses such as 192.168.1.1 (in IPv4), or more complex newer alphanumeric IP addresses such as 2400:cb00:2048:1::c629:d7a2 (in IPv6).

### How does DNS work?
- The process of DNS resolution involves **converting a hostname (such as www.example.com) into a computer-friendly IP address (such as 192.168.1.1)**. 
- An IP address is given to each device on the Internet, and that **IP address is necessary to find the appropriate Internet device**  like a street address is used to find a particular home. 
- When **a user wants to load a webpage**, a translation must occur between what a user types into their web browser **(example.com)-HOSTNAME** and **the machine-friendly address-IP** necessary to locate the example.com webpage.

- In order to understand the process behind the DNS resolution, it’s important to learn about the different hardware components a DNS query must pass between. For the web browser, the DNS lookup occurs “ behind the scenes” and requires no interaction from the user’s computer apart from the initial request.

- - -
> #### There are **4 DNS servers** involved in loading a webpage:

* **DNS recursor** 
  * The recursor can be thought of as a librarian who is asked to go **find a particular book** somewhere in a library. 
  * The DNS recursor is a server designed to *receive queries* from client machines through applications such as web browsers. 
  * Typically the recursor is then responsible for making additional requests in order to satisfy the client’s DNS query.

* **Root nameserver**
  * The root server is the first step in **translating (resolving) human readable host names into IP addresses**. 
  * It can be thought of like an index in a library that points to different racks of books, typically, it serves as a reference to other more specific locations.

* **TLD nameserver**
  * The top level domain server (TLD) can be thought of as a specific rack of books in a library. 
  * This nameserver is the next step in the **search for a specific IP address**, and it hosts the **last portion** of a hostname (In example.com, the TLD server is **“com”**).   ( host = v. store (a website or other data) on a server or other computer so that it can be accessed over the Internet.)

* **Authoritative nameserver** 
  * This final nameserver can be thought of as a dictionary on a rack of books, in which a specific name can be translated into its definition.
  * The authoritative nameserver is the last stop in the nameserver query. If the authoritative name server **has access to the requested record, it will return the IP address for the requested hostname back to the *DNS Recursor*** (the librarian) that made the initial request.


> ### What's the difference between an authoritative DNS server and a recursive(재귀) DNS resolver?
- Both concepts refer to servers (groups of servers) that are integral to the DNS infrastructure, but each performs a different role and lives in **different locations inside the pipeline of a DNS query**. 
- One way to think about the difference is the **recursive resolver is at the beginning of the DNS query** and the **authoritative nameserver is at the end**.


* The recursive resolver is the computer that responds to a recursive request from a client and takes the time to **track down the DNS record**. It does this by **making a series of requests until it reaches the authoritative DNS nameserver for the requested record.**

* The authoritative DNS server is a server that actually holds, and is responsible for, DNS resource records. This is the server at the bottom of the DNS lookup chain that will respond with the queried resource record, ultimately allowing the web browser making the request to reach the IP address needed to access a website or other web resources. An authoritative nameserver can satisfy queries from its own data without needing to query another source, as it is the final source of truth for certain DNS records.
- - -

> The 8 steps in a DNS lookup:

1. A user types ‘example.com’ into a web browser and the query travels into the Internet and is received by a DNS recursive resolver.
2. The resolver then queries a DNS root nameserver.
3. The root server then responds to the resolver with the address of a Top Level Domain (TLD) DNS server (such as .com or .net), which stores the information for its domains. When searching for example.com, our request is pointed toward the .com TLD.
4. The resolver then makes a request to the .com TLD.
5. The TLD server then responds with the IP address of the domain’s nameserver, example.com.
6. Lastly, the recursive resolver sends a query to the domain’s nameserver.
7. The IP address for example.com is then returned to the resolver from the nameserver.
8. The DNS resolver then responds to the web browser with the IP address of the domain requested initially.
Once the 8 steps of the DNS lookup have returned the IP address for example.com, the browser is able to make the request for the web page:
9. The browser makes a HTTP request to the IP address.
10. The server at that IP returns the webpage to be rendered in the browser (step 10).


- - -

    In computing, pipeline refers to the logical queue that is filled with all the instructions for the computer processor to process in parallel. It is the process of storing and queuing tasks and instructions that are executed simultaneously by the processor in an organized way.






[dns_link]: https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/what-is-dns/
