---
layout: post
title: Network
categories:
- blog
---

> Ethernet

* Ethernet is the traditional technology for connecting **wired local area networks (LANs)**, enabling devices to communicate with each other via a protocol -- a set of rules or common network language.

* As a data-link layer protocol in the TCP/IP stack, Ethernet describes how network devices can format and transmit data packets so other devices on the same local or campus area network segment can recognize, receive and process them. 
  * An Ethernet cable is the physical, encased wiring over which the data travels.

* Any device accessing a geographically localized network using a cable -- i.e., with a wired rather than wireless connection -- likely uses Ethernet -- whether in **a home, school or office setting**. From businesses to gamers, diverse end users depend on the benefits of **Ethernet connectivity, including reliability and security**.

* Compared to wireless LAN technology, Ethernet is typically less vulnerable to disruptions -- whether from radio wave interference, physical barriers or bandwidth hogs. It can also offer a greater degree of network security and control than wireless technology, as devices must connect using physical cabling -- making it difficult for outsiders to access network data or hijack bandwidth for unsanctioned devices.

( Bandwidth hog is a slang term for Internet users who use substantially more bandwidth than other users on the same network. Simply put, bandwidth hogs **generally download more content** than other users. 
( Hijacking is a type of network security attack in which the attacker takes control of a communication )
( Bandwidth is **the capacity of a wired or wireless network communications link to transmit the maximum amount of data** from one point to another over a computer network or internet connection in a given amount of time -- usually one second. Synonymous with capacity, bandwidth describes the data transfer rate. Bandwidth is not ~~a measure of network speed~~ -- a common misconception.)
