---
layout: post
title: MYSQL
categories:
- blog
---
# MYSQL
=============
MySQL is an open source **relational database management system (RDBMS)**. Its name is a combination of "My", the name of co-founder Michael Widenius's daughter, and "SQL", the abbreviation for **Structured Query Language.**

- - -
*Query language* is primarily created for creating, accessing and modifying data in and out from a database management system (DBMS). Typically, **QL requires users to input a structured command** that is similar and close to the English language querying construct.
For example, the SQL query: SELECT * FROM
The customer will retrieve all data from the customer records/table. ( retrieve = to get stored information from a computer )
*Database(db)*
A database is a collection of information that is organized so that it can be easily accessed, managed and updated.
- - -

MySQL is free and open-source software under the terms of the GNU General Public License, and is also available under a variety of proprietary licenses. MySQL was owned and sponsored by the Swedish company MySQL AB, which was bought by Sun Microsystems (now Oracle Corporation).[8] In 2010, when Oracle acquired Sun, Widenius forked the open-source MySQL project to create MariaDB.

MySQL is a component of the LAMP web application software stack (and others), which is an acronym for Linux, Apache, MySQL, Perl/PHP/Python. MySQL is used by many database-driven web applications, including Drupal, Joomla, phpBB, and WordPress. MySQL is also used by many popular websites, including Google (though not for searches), Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, and YouTube.
- - -
## BITNAMI
- - -
Bitnami is a library of installers or software packages for web applications and development stacks as well as virtual appliances. 
Bitnami WAMP Stack provides a complete **PHP, MySQL and Apache development environment** for Windows that can be launched in one click

- - -
## Start MySQL with Bitnami
- - -
1. Find manager-windows.exe (directory - C:\Bitnami\wampstack-7.1.27-1)
2. Start it and go to Manage Servers section to see if MySQL is on. If its not, start it.
3. open cmd
4-1. cd C:\Bitnami\wampstack-7.1.27-1\mysql\bin
4-2. mysql -u root -p      **meaning you are trying to connect to MsSQL shell with parameters, -u parameter specified MySQL user name, -p = --password 
4-3. enter pawword: 

5. Once you enter the password, you have logged into mysql as the root user. 

- - -
## Databases in Mysql
- - -
## Commands
  1. CREATE DATABASE *NAMEOFDATABASE; # create database named *nameofdatabase
  2. SHOW DATABASES;                  # show the existing databases
  3. USE *NAMEOFDATABASE*;            # The following commands are for this database 

- - -
### Commands - Tables
  1. CREATE TABLE *NAMEOFTABLE(
      id INT(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
      col2 VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
      COL3 TEXT NULL,
      COL4 DATETIME NOT NULL,
      COL5 VARCHAR(30) NULL,
      PRIMARY KEY(id);
  
  
  # create tale named *nameoftable
  






