---
layout: post
title: Session
categories:
- blog
---


> # Session


* In computer science, in particular networking, a session is a semi-permanent interactive information interchange, also known as a dialogue, a conversation or a meeting, between two or more communicating devices, or between a computer and user (see Login session).


* In telecommunication, a session is a series of interactions between two communication end points that occur during the span of a single connection. Typically, **one end point requests a connection with another specified end point and if that end point replies agreeing to the connection, the end points take turns exchanging commands and data** ("talking to each other"). The session **begins when the connection is established at both ends** and terminates when the connection is ended.

* In the standard industry communications reference model, Open Systems Interconnection (OSI), the Session layer (sometimes called the "port layer") manages the setting up and taking down of the association between two communicating end points that is called a connection. **A connection is maintained while the two end points are communicating back and forth in a conversation or session of some duration**. Some connections and sessions last only long enough to send a message in one direction. However, other sessions may last longer, usually with one or both of the communicating parties able to terminate it. For Internet applications, each session is related to a particular port, a number that is associated with a particular upper layer application. For example, the HTTP program or daemon always has port number 80. The port numbers associated with the main Internet applications are referred to as well-known port numbers. Most port numbers, however, are available for dynamic assignment to other applications.

- - -
* In some cases, a session is user-initiated. For example, the time frame for an interaction between two personal computers used in online chatting or messaging is considered a session. The individual users initiate it, and end it when it is finished.

* Other kinds of sessions are initiated by technology. One of the most common is a client/server session between a server and a personal computer or other device or system accessing that server. 
* Developers and others have developed session protocols for handling these interactions between systems. 
* These cover all of the many interactions required for browsing the Internet, as well as sending and receiving email through various email clients. It is interesting to note that **many of these sessions are actively hidden from the end users**; in other words, the common user does not recognize that these sessions are occurring, and does not know much about what happens during these sessions. Analysis of technology-initiated sessions is largely the province of network administrators, security experts and others with a close knowledge of an interactive network.
